Blending|An electric blender is needed for recipes containing fruit or other ingredients which do not break down by shaking. Blending is an appropriate way of combining these ingredients with others, creating a smooth ready to serve mixture. Some recipes will call for ice to be placed in the blender, in which case you would use a suitable amount of crushed ice.
Building|When building a cocktail, the ingredients are poured into the glass in which the cocktail will be served. Usually, the ingredients are floated on top of each other, but occasionally, a swizzle stick is put in the glass, allowing the ingredients to be mixed.
Blend|Mix with blender using liquids first ice last. Always use a high end commercial blender for a consistent smooth texture.
Build|combine the ingredients directly into the glass with or without ice.
Chilling|Chilling is a procedure, which consists of cooling the glass with ice and water prior to pouring the drink. Carbonated soda speeds up the process due to the sodium content. Do not throw ice and water back into the ice bin, but rather into the dump sink.
Coating|The coating technique consists of rinsing a glass with a small amount of liquid using a clockwise movement until the glass is coated evenly and thoroughly. The excess liquid is removed by holding the glass upside down until the glass is empty. This is a common practice for drinks such as Pink Gin and Sazerac. In some circumstances, recipes may call for "coated with chocolate syrup" too.
Combine|Pour all ingredients in order directly into glassware. Ice is usually not required. 
Dust|Garnishing by sprinkling ground nutmeg, grated cinnamon stick, or chocolate powder on top of a drink.
Flaming|Flaming is the method by which a cocktail or liquor is set alight, normally to enhance the flavor of a drink. It should only be attempted with caution, and for the above reason only, not to simply look cool.\nSome liquors will ignite quite easily if their proof is high. Heating a small amount of the liquor in a spoon will cause the alcohol to collect at the top, which can then be easily lit. You can then pour this over the prepared ingredients. Don't add alcohol to ignited drinks, don't leave them unattended, light them where they pose no danger to anybody else, and ensure no objects can possibly come into contact with any flames from the drink. Always extinguish a flaming drink before consuming it.
Flamed Zest|This very eye catching garnish consists of igniting the flammable, aromatic oils found in the rind of citrus fruit. Hold the cut zest with the peel facing the surface of the drink. Using the thumb and forefinger gently squeeze the zest to release the oils over a match flame. Stay at least 3-4 inches away from the drink otherwise a smoky film will appear on the glass rim. Discard the burnt peel and replace it with a fresh one avoiding a "burnt rubber" smell.
Float|Floating means layering the final ingredient on top of the drink by slowing pouring it over a (bar) spoon or a cherry. You can also pour the liquor against the rim of the glass to achieve the same effect. 
Frosting|Storing your glassware in the freezer will give you this nice icy coating on your glassware.
How to Float Cordials|To make cordials float on top of the other in the same glass, as in the B-52, pour each ingredient slowly over a teaspoon held bottom side up over the glass. The rounded surface of the teaspoon will spread each cordial slowly and evenly over the one below.
Ice|Always use plenty of ice. Whether cubed or shaved, all ice should be fresh, crystal clear, and free of any taste. Always put the ice in the mixing glass, shaker, or drinking glass before pouring any ingredients. The liquids are chilled as they are poured over the ice and there is no splashing. More ice means less mixer, therefore, if you pack a glass full of ice, the drink will taste stronger
Layering|To layer or float an ingredient (ie. cream, liqueurs) on top of another, use the rounded or back part of a spoon and rest it against the inside of a glass. Slowly pour down the spoon and into the glass. The ingredient should run down the inside of the glass and remain seperated from the ingredient below it. Learning the approximate weight of certain liqueurs and such will allow you to complete this technique more successfully, as lighter ingredients can then be layered on top of heavier ones.
Muddling|To extract the most flavor from certain fresh ingredients such as fruit or mint garnishes, you should crush the ingredient with the muddler on the back end of your bar spoon, or with a pestle.
Pouring|When making the same drink (especially shooters) for several people at the same time, make them all in one batch. Saving time, this also insures that all the drinks are made the same strength and taste. Set up all the glasses in a row, pour, filling each glass halfway. Then go back to the first glass and top them off.
Rimming|Rimming of the glass is obtained by moistening the rim by wiping a wedge of lime around it and holding it upside down. This detains any liquid from entering the glass and spoiling the cocktail. A professional piece of equipment composed of three sections, one with a sponge, is known as a rimmer. It is important to rinse the sponge and allow it to air dry at the end of the shift for health code.
Shaking|When a drink contains eggs, fruit juices or cream, it is necessary to shake the ingredients. Shaking is the method by which you use a cocktail shaker to mix ingredients together and chill them simultaneously. The object is to almost freeze the drink whilst breaking down and combining the ingredients. Normally this is done with ice cubes three-quarters of the way full. When you've poured in the ingredients, hold the shaker in both hands, with one hand on top and one supporting the base, and give a short, sharp, snappy shake. It's important not to rock your cocktail to sleep. When water has begun to condense on the surface of the shaker, the cocktail should be sufficiently chilled and ready to be strained.
Straining|Most cocktail shakers are sold with a build-in strainer or hawthorn strainer. When a drink calls for straining, ensure you've used ice cubes, as crushed ice tends to clog the strainer of a standard shaker. If indeed a drink is required shaken with crushed ice (ie. Shirley Temple), it is to be served unstrained.
Stirring|You can stir cocktails effectively with a metal or glass rod in a mixing glass. If ice is to be used, use ice cubes to prevent dilution, and strain the contents into a glass when the surface of the mixing glass begins to collect condensation.
When to Shake|Drinks containing fruit juices, sugar, eggs, cream or other ingredients difficult to mix should be shaken briskly. Frothiness is desired of most sour drinks, punch drinks or creamy drinks. Shaking the drink and them pouring it into the drinking glass provides the best presentation.
When to Stir|Drinks containing clear liquors and ingredients require stirring with ice for proper mixing. Stir drinks containing a carbonated mixer (tonic, ginger, soda, etc.) gently in order to preserve the sparkle and effervescence. Too little stirring fails to mix or chill ingredients, too much stirring melts the ice and dilutes the drink.