Champagne|The champagne flûte (fr. Flûte à Champagne) is a stem glass with a tall, narrow bowl. The bowl of a flute may resemble a narrow wine glass as seen in the illustration; or a trumpet shape; or be very narrow and straight-sided. As with other stemware, the stem allows the drinker to hold the glass without affecting the temperature of the drink. The bowl is designed to retain champagne's signature carbonation, by reducing the surface area at the opening of the bowl. The flute has largely replaced the champagne coupe or saucer, the shape of which allowed carbonation to dissipate even more rapidly than from a standard wine glass. Its smaller diameter also allows more flutes to be carried on a tray. Nucleation in a champagne glass helps form the bubbles seen in champagne. Too much nucleation will cause the carbonation to quickly fizzle out. A smoother surface area will produce fewer bubbles in the glass, and more bubble texture in the taster's mouth. While most commonly used for sparkling wines, flutes are also used for certain beers, especially Belgian lambic and gueuze, which are brewed with wild yeast and often fruited. The tart flavor of these beers, coupled with their carbonation, makes them similar to sparkling white wines, and the champagne flute an ideal choice of glassware.Typical Size: 6 oz.
Cocktail|A cocktail glass (also called a martini glass) is a stemmed glass, typically about 250 mL which has a cone-shaped bowl placed upon a stem above a flat base. It is mainly used to serve cocktails. As with other stemware, the stem allows the drinker to hold the glass without affecting the temperature of the drink. One variation is the double martini glass which is taller and wider at the opening than a standard martini glass. Another variation is the stub glass, which is identical to the martini glass, except that the base is attached directly to the bowl, removing the fragile stem. These glasses may be used in situations where breakage or theft of regular martini glasses occurs frequently.Typical Size: 4-12 oz.
Highball|A highball glass is a glass tumbler which will contain 8 to 12 fluid ounces (240 to 350 mL).[1][2] It is used to serve highball cocktails and other mixed drinks. The highball glass is taller than an Old Fashioned glass, and shorter and wider than a Collins glass. Typical Size: 8-12 oz.
Hurricane|A large glass designed to contain the mix known as the Hurricane - The hurricane is an extremely sweet alcoholic drink made from lime juice, passion fruit syrup and rum. It is one of many popular drinks served in New Orleans. Typical Size: 15 oz.
Irish Coffee|The traditional mug used for hot coffee. Made famous by the drink "Irish Coffee"
Margarita|This slightly larger and rounded approach to a cocktail glass has a broad-rim for holding salt, ideal for margarita's. It is also used in daiquiris and other fruit drinks. Typical Size: 12 oz.
Mug|The traditional mug used for hot coffee. Typical Size: 12-16 oz.
Parfait|This glass has a similar inwards curve to that of a hurricane glass, with a steeper outwards rim and larger, rounded bowl. Often used for drinks containing fruit or ice cream. Typical Size: 12 oz. 
Pint|A pint glass is a drinking vessel made to hold either a British pint of 20 fluid ounces (an "imperial pint") or an American pint of 16 fluid ounces. These glasses are used predominately to serve beer.
Pousse cafe|A narrow glass essentially used for pousse cafes and other layered dessert drinks. It's shape increases the ease of layering ingredients. Typical Size: 6 oz.
Punch|A large demispherical bowl suitable for punches or large mixes. Typical Size: 1-5 gal.
Red wine|A clear, thin, stemmed glass with a round bowl tapering inward at the rim. Typical Size: 8 oz.
Shot|A small glass suitable for vodka, whiskey and other liquors. Many "shot" mixed drinks also call for shot glasses. Typical Size: 1.5 oz.
White wine|A clear, thin, stemmed glass with an elongated oval bowl tapering inward at the rim. Typical Size: 12.5 oz. 
Old-fashioned|A short, round so called "rocks" glass, suitable for cocktails or liquor served on the rocks, or "with a splash". Typical Size: 8-10 oz. 
Collins|Shaped similarly to a highball glass, only taller, the collins glass was originally used for the line of collins gin drinks, and is now also commonly used for soft drinks, alcoholic juice, and tropical/exotic juices such as Mai Tai's. Typical Size: 14 oz.
Cordial|Small and stemmed glasses used for serving small portions of your favourite liquors at times such as after a meal. Typical Size: 2 oz. 